# BlockNote Packages & Sub-Packages

## Core

The `@blocknote/core` package should contain everything needed to build a pure JS editor instance. It has no opinion on the UI layer, and is only concerned with the core editor functionality.

It contains sub-packages for:

- `@blocknote/core/blocks` - Contains the default blocks, inline content, styles and their implementations (excluding things like blockContainer, blockGroup, etc which are core to the editor but should not be part of the schema).
  - `@blocknote/core/blocks/header` - Contains the header block.
  - `@blocknote/core/blocks/code-block` - Contains the code block block.
  - etc...
- `@blocknote/core/extensions` - Re-exports the extension packages below.
  - `@blocknote/core/extensions/comments` - Contains the comments extension.
- `@blocknote/core/exporter` - Contains the exporter package.
  - `@blocknote/core/exporter/html` - Contains the html exporter package.
  - `@blocknote/core/exporter/markdown` - Contains the markdown exporter package.
- `@blocknote/core/server-util` - Contains the server util package.
- `@blocknote/core/locales` - Contains the locales package.

## React

The `@blocknote/react` package should contain everything needed to build a React editor instance. It has no opinion on the core editor functionality, and is only concerned with the React UI layer.

It contains sub-packages for:

- `@blocknote/react/editor` - Contains the editor package.
  - `@blocknote/react/comments` - Contains the comments package.
  - `@blocknote/react/table-handles` - Contains the table handles package.
  - etc... (need to figure out what needs to be exported vs. available and how coupled this all is)

## Editor instance

The editor instance has been growing in complexity, and handles too many different concerns. To focus it, we should split it up into something like: the `BlockNoteEditor.ts` file.

The goal would be to group the functionality of the editor instance in such a way that it is easier to navigate and understand.
